README.md, before:

# Sway Input Configurator

Input device configurator for [SwayWM](https://swaywm.org/), written in Python and Qt5/PySide2, inspired by [nwg-shell-config](https://github.com/nwg-piotr/nwg-shell-config). It uses standard [libinput](https://www.mankier.com/5/sway-input) options to configure keyboard, touchpad and pointer devices.

![Keyboard settings](https://github.com/Sunderland93/sway-input-config/blob/master/screenshot1.png?raw=true)

![Mouse settings](https://github.com/Sunderland93/sway-input-config/blob/master/screenshot2.png?raw=true)

![Touchpad settings](https://github.com/Sunderland93/sway-input-config/blob/master/screenshot3.png?raw=true)

## Installation:

#### Dependencies (Debian/Ubuntu):
* python3
* python3-pyside2.qtwidgets
* python3-pyside2.qtcore
* python3-pyside2.qtgui
* python3-setuptools
* python3-i3ipc
* qttranslations5-l10n

#### Dependencies (Arch Linux):
* python
* pyside2
* python-setuptools
* python-i3ipc
* qt5-translations

```
git clone https://github.com/Sunderland93/sway-input-config.git
cd sway-input-config && python setup.py install
```

## Settings:

Configuration file is located in `~/.config/sway-input-config/settings`. It's a JSON-file:
```json
{
  "keyboard-layout": [
   "us"
  ],
  "keyboard-variant": [
   ""
  ],
  "keyboard-shortcut": "",
  "keyboard-identifier": "",
  "keyboard-model": "pc105",
  "keyboard-repeat-delay": 300,
  "keyboard-repeat-rate": 40,
  "keyboard-capslock": "disabled",
  "keyboard-numlock": "disabled",
  "pointer-identifier": "",
  "pointer-accel-profile": "flat",
  "pointer-pointer-accel": 0.0,
  "pointer-natural-scroll": "disabled",
  "pointer-scroll-factor": 1.0,
  "pointer-left-handed": "disabled",
  "touchpad-identifier": "",
  "touchpad-accel-profile": "flat",
  "touchpad-pointer-accel": 0.0,
  "touchpad-natural-scroll": "disabled",
  "touchpad-scroll-factor": 1.0,
  "touchpad-scroll-method": "two_finger",
  "touchpad-left-handed": "disabled",
  "touchpad-tap": "enabled",
  "touchpad-tap-button-map": "lrm",
  "touchpad-drag": "enabled",
  "touchpad-drag-lock": "disabled",
  "touchpad-dwt": "enabled",
  "touchpad-middle-emulation": "enabled"
}
```
If **settings** file is corrupted or missing, Sway Input Configurator will use the default settings and recreate **settings** file. Config files for keyboard, touchpad and mouse is located in `~/.config/sway/` (`keyboard`, `touchpad` and `pointer` respectively).

## Translations

If you would like to translate Sway Input Configurator into your language, please follow the instructions below:

* Install the necessary utilities - Qt Linguist and pylupdate5. For Debian-based systems:

`sudo apt install pyqt5-dev-tools qttools5-dev-tools`

* Clone the repository and generate translation:

```
git clone git@github.com:Sunderland93/sway-input-config.git
cd sway-input-config
./locale-gen.sh
```

It creates `lang_*.ts` file in `sway_input_config/langs` based on your system locale. If you want to create translation other than your system locale, pass `yourlocale` option to `locale-gen` script (e.g for German, you can pass `de_DE`):

`./locale-gen.sh de_DE`

* Open created `lang_*.ts` file in Qt Linguist tool, choose language and translate all strings. After that, select File -> Compile and save your `lang_*.qm` file in the same directory as `lang_*.ts` (`sway_input_config/langs`).

* Test your translation. If your translation is the same as your system locale, Sway Input Configurator apply it automatically. Or you can pass `--locale "yourlocale"` option to Sway Input Configurator to force the locale (e.g `--locale de_DE`).

* Feel free to send PR with your translation :)

Commit message:

Add warning about master-branch status

README.md, after:

### WARNING: current master-branch is broken for now! Use [release](https://github.com/Sunderland93/sway-input-config/releases) version's.

## Sway Input Configurator

Input device configurator for [SwayWM](https://swaywm.org/), written in Python and Qt5/PySide2, inspired by [nwg-shell-config](https://github.com/nwg-piotr/nwg-shell-config). It uses standard [libinput](https://www.mankier.com/5/sway-input) options to configure keyboard, touchpad and pointer devices.

![Keyboard settings](https://github.com/Sunderland93/sway-input-config/blob/master/screenshot1.png?raw=true)

![Mouse settings](https://github.com/Sunderland93/sway-input-config/blob/master/screenshot2.png?raw=true)

![Touchpad settings](https://github.com/Sunderland93/sway-input-config/blob/master/screenshot3.png?raw=true)

## Installation:

#### Dependencies (Debian/Ubuntu):
* python3
* python3-pyside2.qtwidgets
* python3-pyside2.qtcore
* python3-pyside2.qtgui
* python3-setuptools
* python3-i3ipc
* qttranslations5-l10n

#### Dependencies (Arch Linux):
* python
* pyside2
* python-setuptools
* python-i3ipc
* qt5-translations

```
git clone https://github.com/Sunderland93/sway-input-config.git
cd sway-input-config && python setup.py install
```

## Settings:

Configuration file is located in `~/.config/sway-input-config/settings`. It's a JSON-file:
```json
{
  "keyboard-layout": [
   "us"
  ],
  "keyboard-variant": [
   ""
  ],
  "keyboard-shortcut": "",
  "keyboard-identifier": "",
  "keyboard-model": "pc105",
  "keyboard-repeat-delay": 300,
  "keyboard-repeat-rate": 40,
  "keyboard-capslock": "disabled",
  "keyboard-numlock": "disabled",
  "pointer-identifier": "",
  "pointer-accel-profile": "flat",
  "pointer-pointer-accel": 0.0,
  "pointer-natural-scroll": "disabled",
  "pointer-scroll-factor": 1.0,
  "pointer-left-handed": "disabled",
  "touchpad-identifier": "",
  "touchpad-accel-profile": "flat",
  "touchpad-pointer-accel": 0.0,
  "touchpad-natural-scroll": "disabled",
  "touchpad-scroll-factor": 1.0,
  "touchpad-scroll-method": "two_finger",
  "touchpad-left-handed": "disabled",
  "touchpad-tap": "enabled",
  "touchpad-tap-button-map": "lrm",
  "touchpad-drag": "enabled",
  "touchpad-drag-lock": "disabled",
  "touchpad-dwt": "enabled",
  "touchpad-middle-emulation": "enabled"
}
```
If **settings** file is corrupted or missing, Sway Input Configurator will use the default settings and recreate **settings** file. Config files for keyboard, touchpad and mouse is located in `~/.config/sway/` (`keyboard`, `touchpad` and `pointer` respectively).

## Translations

If you would like to translate Sway Input Configurator into your language, please follow the instructions below:

* Install the necessary utilities - Qt Linguist and pylupdate5. For Debian-based systems:

`sudo apt install pyqt5-dev-tools qttools5-dev-tools`

* Clone the repository and generate translation:

```
git clone git@github.com:Sunderland93/sway-input-config.git
cd sway-input-config
./locale-gen.sh
```

It creates `lang_*.ts` file in `sway_input_config/langs` based on your system locale. If you want to create translation other than your system locale, pass `yourlocale` option to `locale-gen` script (e.g for German, you can pass `de_DE`):

`./locale-gen.sh de_DE`

* Open created `lang_*.ts` file in Qt Linguist tool, choose language and translate all strings. After that, select File -> Compile and save your `lang_*.qm` file in the same directory as `lang_*.ts` (`sway_input_config/langs`).

* Test your translation. If your translation is the same as your system locale, Sway Input Configurator apply it automatically. Or you can pass `--locale "yourlocale"` option to Sway Input Configurator to force the locale (e.g `--locale de_DE`).

* Feel free to send PR with your translation :)
